=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::Schema::Specs - Predefined Schema Information

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # not for end-users
 use XML::Compile::Schema::Specs;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This package defines the various schema-specifications.

=head1 METHODS

XML::Compile::Schema::Specs-E<gt>B<builtInType>((NODE|undef), EXPANDED | (URI,LOCAL), OPTIONS)

=over 4

Provide an EXPANDED (full) type name or an namespace URI and a LOCAL node
name.  Returned is a HASH with process information or C<undef> if not
found.

 Option         --Default
 sloppy_floats    <false>
 sloppy_integers  <false>

. sloppy_floats => BOOLEAN

=over 4

The float types of XML are all quite big, and support NaN, INF, and -INF.
Perl's normal floats do not, and therefore Math::BigFloat is used.  This,
however, is slow.  When true, your application will crash on any value which
is not understood by Perl's default float... but run much faster.

=back

. sloppy_integers => BOOLEAN

=over 4

the <integer> types must accept huge integers, which require
C<Math::BigInt> objects to process.  But often, Perl's normal signed
32bit integers suffice... which is good for performance, but not standard
compliant.

=back

=back

XML::Compile::Schema::Specs-E<gt>B<predefinedSchema>(URI)

=over 4

Return a HASH which contains the schema information for the specified
URI (or undef if it doesn't exist).

=back

XML::Compile::Schema::Specs-E<gt>B<predefinedSchemas>

=over 4

Returns the uri of all predefined schemas.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile distribution version 1.13,
built on February 21, 2010. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

All modules in this suite:
L<XML::Compile>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP12>,
L<XML::Compile::SOAP::Daemon>,
L<XML::Compile::Tester>,
L<XML::Compile::Cache>,
L<XML::Compile::Dumper>,
L<XML::Compile::RPC>,
and
L<XML::Rewrite>,
L<XML::ExistDB>,
L<XML::LibXML::Simple>.

Please post questions or ideas to the mailinglist at
F<http://lists.scsys.co.uk/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/xml-compile>
For life contact with other developers, visit the C<#xml-compile> channel
on C<irc.perl.org>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2006-2010 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

