=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::Schema::Translate - create an XML data parser

=head1 INHERITANCE

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 # for internal use only
 my $code = XML::Compile::Schema::Translate->compileTree(...);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module converts a schema type definition into a code
reference which can be used to interpret a schema.  The sole public
function in this package is L<compileTree()|XML::Compile::Schema::Translate/"METHODS">, and is called by
L<XML::Compile::Schema::compile()|XML::Compile::Schema/"Compilers">, which does a lot of set-ups.
Please do not try to use this package directly!

The code in this package interprets schemas; it understands, for
instance, how complexType definitions work.  Then, when the
schema syntax is decoded, it will knot the pieces together into
one CODE reference which can be used in the main user program.

=head2 Unsupported features

This implementation is work in progress, but by far most structures in
W3C schemas are implemented (and tested!).

Missing are
 schema noNamespaceSchemaLocation
 any ##local
 anyAttribute ##local

Some things do not work in schemas anyway: C<import>, C<include>.  They
only work if everyone always has a working connection to internet.  You
have to require them manually.  Include also does work, because it does not
use namespaces.  (see L<XML::Compile::Schema::importDefinitions()|XML::Compile::Schema/"Accessors">)

Ignored, because not for our purpose is the search optimization
information: C<key, unique, keyref, selector, field>, and de schema
documentation: C<notation, annotation>.  Compile the schema schema itself
to interpret the message if you need them.

A few nuts are still to crack:
 any* processContents always interpreted as lax
 schema version
 automatic handling of complexType/complexContent mixed
 openContent
 attribute limitiations (facets) on dates
 full understanding of patterns (now limited)
 final is not protected
 QName writer namespace to prefix translation

Of course, the latter list is all fixed in next release ;-)
See chapter L</DETAILS> for more on how the tune the translator.

=head1 METHODS

XML::Compile::Schema::Translate-E<gt>B<compileTree>(ELEMENT|ATTRIBUTE|TYPE, OPTIONS)

=over 4

Do not call this function yourself, but use
L<XML::Compile::Schema::compile()|XML::Compile::Schema/"Compilers"> (or wrappers around that).

This function returns a CODE reference, which can translate
between Perl datastructures and XML, based on a schema.  Before
this method is called is the schema already translated into
a table of types.

 Option--Default
 action  <required>
 bricks  <required>
 hooks   <required>
 nss     <required>

. action => 'READER'|'WRITER'

. bricks => CLASS

. hooks => ARRAY

. nss => L<XML::Compile::Schema::NameSpaces>

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head2 Translator options

=head3 performance optimization

The L<XML::Compile::Schema::compile()|XML::Compile::Schema/"Compilers"> method (and wrappers) defines
a set options to improve performance or usability.  These options
are translated into the executed code: compile time, not run-time!

The following options with their implications:

=over 4

=item sloppy_integers BOOLEAN

The C<integer> type, as defined by the schema built-in specification,
accepts really huge values.  Also the derived types, like
C<nonNegativeInteger> can contain much larger values than Perl's
internal C<long>.  Therefore, the module will start to use Math::BigInt
for these types if needed.

However, in most cases, people design C<integer> where an C<int> suffices.
The use of big-int values comes with heigh performance costs.  Set this
option to C<true> when you are sure that ALL USES of C<integer> in the
scheme will fit into signed longs (are between -2147483648 and 2147483647
inclusive)

=item check_values BOOLEAN

Check the validity of the values, before parsing them.  This will
report errors for the reader, instead of crashes.  The writer will
not produce invalid data.

=item check_occurs BOOLEAN

Checking whether the number of occurrences for an item are between
C<minOccurs> and C<maxOccurs> (implied for C<all>, C<sequence>, and
C<choice> or explictly specified) takes time.  Of course, in cases
errors must be handled.  When this option is set to C<false>, 
only distinction between single and array elements is made.

=item ignore_facets BOOLEAN

Facets limit field content in the restriction block of a simpleType.
When this option is C<true>, no checks are performed on the values.
In some cases, this may cause problems: especially with whiteSpace and
digits of floats.  However, you may be able to control this yourself.
In most cases, luck even plays a part in this.  Less checks means a
better performance.

Simple type restrictions are not implemented by other XML perl
modules.  When the schema is nicely detailed, this will give
extra security.

=item validation BOOLEAN

When used, it overrules the above C<check_values>, C<check_occurs>, and
C<ignore_facets> options.  A true value enables all checks, a false
value will disable them all.  Of course, the latter is the fastest but
also less secure: your program will need to validate the values in some
other way.

XML::LibXML has its own validate method, but I have not yet seen any
performance figures on that.  If you use it, however, it is of course
a good idea to turn XML::Compile's validation off.

=back

=head3 qualified XML

The produced XML may not use the name-spaces as defined by the schemas,
just to simplify the input and output.  The structural definition of
the schemas is still in-tact, but name-space collission may appear.

Per schema, it can be specified whether the elements and attributes
defined in-there need to be used qualified (with prefix) or not.
This can cause horrible output when within an unqualified schema
elements are used from an other schema which is qualified.

The suggested solution in articles about the subject is to provide
people with both a schema which is qualified as one which is not.
Perl is known to be blunt in its approach: we simply define a flag
which can force one of both on all schemas together, using
C<elements_qualified> and C<attributes_qualified>.  May people and
applications do not understand name-spaces sufficiently, and these
options may make your day!

=head3 Name-spaces

The translator does respect name-spaces, but not all senders and
receivers of XML are name-space capable.  Therefore, you have some
options to interfere.

=over 4

=item output_namespaces HASH|ARRAY-of-PAIRS

The translator will create XML elements (WRITER) which use name-spaces,
based on its own name-space/prefix mapping administration.  This is
needed because the XML tree is created bottom-up, where XML::LibXML
namespace management can only handle this top-down.

When your pass your own HASH as argument, you can explicitly specify the
prefixes you like to be used for which name-space.  Found name-spaces
will be added to the HASH, as well the use count.  When a new name-space
URI is discovered, an attempt is made to use the prefix as found in
the schema. Prefix collisions are actively avoided: when two URIs want
the same prefix, a sequence number is added to one of them which makes
it unique.

The HASH structure looks like this:

  my %namespaces =
    ( myns => { uri => 'myns', prefix => 'mypref', used => 1}
    , ...  => { uri => ... }
    );

  my $make = $schema->compile
    ( WRITER => ...
    , output_namespaces => \%namespaces
    );

  # share the same namespace defs with an other component
  my $other = $schema->compile
    ( WRITER => ...
    , output_namespaces => \%namespaces
    );

When used is specified and larger than 0, then the namespace will
appear in the top-level output element (unless C<include_namespaces>
is false).

Initializing using an ARRAY is a little simpler:

 output_namespaces => [ mypref => 'myns', ... => ... ];

However, be warned that this does not work well with a false value
for C<include_namespaces>: detected namespaces are added to an
internal HASH now, which is not returned; that information is lost.
You will need to know each used namespace beforehand.

=item include_namespaces BOOLEAN

When true and WRITER, the top level returned XML element will contain
the prefix definitions.  Only name-spaces which are actually used
will be included (a count is kept by the translator).  It may
very well list name-spaces which are not in the actual output
because the fields which require them are not included for there is
not value for those fields.

If you like to combine XML output from separate translated parts
(for instance in case of generating SOAP), you may want to delay
the inclusion of name-spaces until a higher level of the XML
hierarchy which is produced later.

=item namespace_reset BOOLEAN

You can pass the same HASH to a next call to a reader or writer to get
consistent name-space usage.  However, when C<include_namespaces> is
used, you may get ghost name-space listings.  This option will reset
the counts on all defined name-spaces.

=item use_default_namespace BOOLEAN (added in release 0.57)

When a true value, the blank prefix will be used for the first namespace
URI which requires a auto-generated prefix.  However, in quite some
environments, people mix horrible non-namespace qualified elements with 
nice namespace qualified elements.  In such situations, namespace the
qualified-but-default prefix (i.e., no prefix) is confusing.  Therefore,
the option defaults to false: do not use the invisible prefix.

You may explicitly specify a blank prefix with C<output_namespaces>,
which will be used when applicable.

=back

=head3 Wildcards handlers

Wildcards are a serious complication: the C<any> and C<anyAttribute>
entities do not describe exactly what can be found, which seriously
hinders the quality of validation and the preparation of L<XML::Compile|XML::Compile>.
Therefore, if you use them then you need to process that parts of
XML yourself.  See the various backends on how to create or process
these elements.

=over 4

=item anyElement CODE|'TAKE_ALL'

This will be called when the type definition contains an C<any>
definition, after processing the other element components.  By
default, all C<any> specifications will be ignored.

=item anyAttribute CODE|'TAKE_ALL'

This will be called when the type definitions contains an
C<anyAttribute> definition, after processing the other attributes.
By default, all C<anyAttribute> specifications will be ignored.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile distribution version 0.70,
built on March 14, 2008. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2006-2008 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

