=head1 NAME

XML::Compile::SOAP::SOAP11 - implementation of SOAP1.1

=head1 INHERITANCE

 XML::Compile::SOAP::SOAP11
   is a XML::Compile::SOAP

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=head1 DESCRIPTION

**WARNING** Implementation not finished: not usable!!

This module handles the SOAP protocol version 1.1.
See F<http://www.w3.org/TR/2000/NOTE-SOAP-20000508/>).
The implementation tries to behave like described in
F<http://www.ws-i.org/Profiles/BasicProfile-1.0.html>

=head2 Limitations

=head1 METHODS

=head2 Constructors

$obj-E<gt>B<compile>(('CLIENT'|'SERVER'),('INPUT'|'OUTPUT'), OPTIONS)

=over 4

 Option        --Defined in     --Default
 body            XML::Compile::SOAP  undef
 destination     XML::Compile::SOAP  []
 fault           XML::Compile::SOAP  []
 header          XML::Compile::SOAP  undef
 headerfault                      []
 mustUnderstand  XML::Compile::SOAP  []
 role            XML::Compile::SOAP  ULTIMATE
 roles           XML::Compile::SOAP  []

. body => ENTRIES

. destination => ARRAY

. fault => ENTRIES

. header => ENTRIES

. headerfault => ENTRIES

=over 4

ARRAY of simple name with element references, for all expected
faults.  There can be unexpected faults, which will not get
decoded automatically.

=back

. mustUnderstand => STRING|ARRAY-OF-STRING

. role => URI|ARRAY-OF-URI

. roles => ARRAY-OF-URI

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<new>(OPTIONS)

=over 4

To simplify the URIs of the actors, as specified with the C<destination>
option, you may use the STRING C<NEXT>.  It will be replaced by the
right URI.

 Option     --Defined in     --Default
 encoding_ns  XML::Compile::SOAP  http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/encoding/
 envelope_ns  XML::Compile::SOAP  http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/soap/envelope/
 media_type   XML::Compile::SOAP  application/soap+xml
 schemas      XML::Compile::SOAP  created internally

. encoding_ns => URI

. envelope_ns => URI

. media_type => MIMETYPE

. schemas => C<XML::Compile::Schema> object

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<roleAbbreviation>(STRING)

=over 4

Translates actor abbreviations into URIs.  The only one defined for
SOAP1.1 is C<NEXT>.  Returns the unmodified STRING in all other cases.

=back

=head2 Accessors

$obj-E<gt>B<encodingNS>

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Accessors">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<envelopeNS>

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Accessors">

=back

$obj-E<gt>B<schemas>

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"Accessors">

=back

=head2 SOAPAction

$obj-E<gt>B<direction>(ROLE, INOUT)

=over 4

See L<XML::Compile::SOAP/"SOAPAction">

=back

=head1 DETAILS

=head1 DIAGNOSTICS

Error: message is INPUT or OUTPUT, not $inout

=over 4

=back

Error: role must be CLIENT or SERVER, not $role

=over 4

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

This module is part of XML-Compile distribution version 0.52,
built on August 14, 2007. Website: F<http://perl.overmeer.net/xml-compile/>

=head1 LICENSE

Copyrights 2006-2007 by Mark Overmeer. For other contributors see ChangeLog.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl itself.
See F<http://www.perl.com/perl/misc/Artistic.html>

